Characters may be granted Strength and Speed Ranks, most commonly through training techniques. A Speed Rank of 0 means no active Ranks or benefits.

**Benefits:** The benefits for each rank are shown in the tables below and on the next page. Their individual sections will further explain these benefits.

**Temporary Ranks:** If you gain temporary Speed or Strength Ranks, you gain the benefit of those abilities, but do not need to pay Chakra for them. These ranks do not stack with other Speed or Strength Ranks, and they cannot be suppressed while active.

**Rank Bonus:** A bonus to Speed or Strength Ranks through special abilities will raise your effective Strength or Speed Rank, but not affect the cost (e.g. with a +2 Rank bonus, you benefit from Rank 2 without cost, or when you activate Rank 1, you benefit from Rank 3 while only paying to maintain Rank 1).

**Rank Penalty:** A penalty to ranks lowers your maximum available Speed or Strength Rank. Speed and Strength ranks cannot go below 0.

**Activating Ranks:** Speed and Strength Ranks can be activated or suppressed separately. Ranks become automatically active at the start of combat. If there is a surprise round in which you cannot act, Ranks will not activate until the surprise round has finished. Activating or suppressing ranks can be done as a free action on your turn, or as a full-round action if not in combat. Activating or suppressing ranks lets you raise or lower your active Ranks to any Rank available (e.g. if you have Speed Rank 3, you can switch between Rank 0, 1, 2 and 3).

If you are *fatigued*, *exhausted* or if you are suffering from Constitution damage, you cannot benefit from Speed or Strength Rank 10. If you suffer from Dexterity damage you cannot activate Speed Rank 10. The same is true for Strength damage and Strength Rank 10.

**Cost:** Speed and Strength Ranks require a constant supply of Chakra to remain active (see their tables). When activating a Rank with a higher number than you currently have active (not counting rank bonuses), you immediately pay the cost. If the cost of Speed or Strength Ranks would drop your Chakra Pool to 0, they are automatically suppressed instead. You pay the Cost separately for each type of Rank you have active.

